apda policies

EDUCATION

ensure that all crèches and nursery schools in Nigeria have at least one person who holds an Early Years Teacher qualification.
Extend free school meals to all children in primary education as resources allow and following a full evaluation of free meals for infants.
Continue to promote the local integration of health, care and educational support for children with Special Educational Needs and health problems
Guarantee all teachers in state-funded schools will be fully qualified or working towards Qualified Teacher Status
encourage and inspire more children to study STEM subjects.
Prevent looked after children and young people being drawn into the criminal justice system unnecessarily by promoting restorative justice.
Require universities to be transparent about their selection criteria.


ECONOMY

take a long-term approach to supporting business and industry, helping to supply credit, skilled workers and infrastructure.
reverse the present trend of total dependence on importation to full home based local production based on locally sources raw materials and technology
Encouraging the growth of crowd funding and alternative finance models, encouraging Local Authorities to use these platforms to improve credit access in their areas.


TRANSPORT 
Develop more modern, resilient rail and air links to and within Nigeria to help the development and diversification of regional economies.
Work to encourage further private sector investment in rail freight terminals and rail-connected distribution parks.
set a clear objective to shift more freight from road to rail and change planning law to ensure new developments provide good freight access to growth poles
Reduce the numbers of older, more polluting buses and coaches for newer, low emissions ones, helping to develop the market for low-carbon buses.



YOUTH, SPORT AND CULTURE, SENIOR CITIZENS

graduates starting out through the NYSC will get help to rent their first place with a government-backed tenancy deposit loan.
Invest in assessments for Disability Living Allowance for persons in need.
Simplify and streamline back-to-work support for people with disabilities, mental or physical health problems.
Initiate programs for the identification of prospective talents

GOVERNANCE

capping donations to political parties at the level prescribed by the Electoral Act
Strengthen the role of legislators in amending the Budget and scrutinising government spending proposals.


HEALTH 

ensure access to health care is based on need not ability to pay
ensure that the NHIS remains atransparent and accountable institution

DEFENCE AND NATIONAL SECURITY 
Support and expAand Police Units, by bringing highflying graduates and skilled mid-career professionals into our police forces.
Introduce and sustain restrictions on the indefinite use of police bail.
Pass a Digital law, to define and enshrine the digital rights of the citizen.
Set long-term budgets to invest in the right equipment at competitive prices.
address the scourge of internally displaced persons and casualties of the insurgency in the regions.
provide the appropriate resources to the police and intelligence agencies to meet the threat, including of cyber-attack.
supports communities to help prevent those at risk of radicalisation from being drawn into illegal activity.


AGRICULTURE

supporting the development of environmentally sustainable solutions to growing demand for food.
promote the production and consumption of healthy, sustainable and affordable food.
Work to ensure the labelling on meat, meat products, milk and dairy products.
Ensure the Food Standards Agency is adequately resourced to enforce food safety standards, and strengthen food fraud surveillance.
reduce the risks and costs of animal disease, while continuing to improve standards of animal welfare.


HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENT

Home ownership will be a strategic objective of an APDA government with emphasis on building new green towns, villages and suburbs around economic hubs of the nation
build more social housing across the communities in Nigeria that will be made available, to let and purchase.
land will be safeguarded as National/state/community Parks, and green laws will be passed in every state of the country.
introduce new energy efficiency and heat saving regulations to reduce heat and energy use.
Work with local government to review incidences of disasters, risks and land drainage, and introduce high standards for resilience in flood risk areas.

POLICY ON WOMEN

provide rape crisis centres and refuges for victims of domestic violence
secure women and girls rights to education and freedom from forced marriage

FOREIGN POLICY

plays a leadership role on efforts to combat climate change.

ENERGY 
Use regulation both nationally and in the states to promote sustainable design where reparability, re-use and recyclability are prioritised, to reduce packaging waste.
Encourage the growth of anaerobic digestion to produce biogas for heat and transport, and sustainable fertiliser
Support innovation which enables the use of coal in electricity generation by 2025 because of its high potentials for affordable energy.

LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT, job creation

create jobs with steadily higher wages
ensure a better pension system so that those who work, and save can feel confident about life after retirement.
introduce Job Creation Partnerships (JCP) that will guarantee that young people will leave school and college confident about their future.
establishing and resourcing Job centre and Work Programme providers to ensure there is real help for those furthest from the labour market.
Introduce disability and parental leave benefits.
Seek ways of raising the National Minimum Wage,without damaging employment opportunities
