policies of the UNITED PROGRESSIVE PARTY

EDUCATION

ECONOMY

reduce rediscount rate and interest rate in order to provide long-term credit for business and create employment
enforce stricter foreign exchange controls with a view to stabilizing the purchasing power of the Naira.
rebuild socail and economic infrastructure like roads, telecoms et al
this will lead to reduced cost of doing business
engage the banking industry to play a more constructive role in the economy

TRANSPORT

Every Nigerian airport will be operated on commercial lines by a private limited liability company.
UPP will commercialize the Nigerian Airways immediately and gradually position the undertaking for privatization.
UPP will encourage Nigerian entrepreneurs presently operating in air transport to form a joint stock partnership that will enable them to improve their services and operate long-haul trans-continental services in competition with air carriers of the European Union and the United States of America.
To assist Nigerian airtransport companies in acquiring aircraft, UPP will authorize the operation of an Aircraft Purchase Loan on the same basis as the Shipping Fund which facilitated the purchase of ships by Nigerian shipping companies. 
UPP will ensure, forthe convenience ofthe public, that every geographical zone in the country has an international airport.
For the safety of Nigerian air travelers, there shall be a strict enforcement of the regulations for aircraft maintenance. 
for river transport same as all of the above 
To expand river transport and make it safe, the dredging of major rivers will be continuous. 
New lines from Lagos to Calabar and from Sokoto to Maiduguri and Yola will be built.
I he Nigerian Railways will be fully commercialized, then privatized and its operations decentralized for greater efficiency
Highway Authorities will create institutes of transport for the training of personnel in transport services. UPP believes that this measure will lead to greater knowledge and disciplined use of the road
UPP will continue the programme of financing assistance for mass transit. The programme will be extended to taxi services in the main urban areas where congestions are severe as a result of the increasing cost of new vehicles. 

DEFENCE AND NATIONAL SECURITY

ensure the armed forces is professionally trained, disciplined and equipped with every modern engine of war
compulsory training and re-training courses in all services of the armed forces and the nigerian police.
UPP shall pursue a policy in which the accommodation of Policemen in Barracks shall be brought to a stop. UPP believes that Policemen shall live among the communities they are trained to protect.

YOUTH, SPORT AND CULTURE, SENIOR CITIZENS

Will support morally and financially all existing youth groups whose programmes are consistent with the moral, physical and intellectual nurturing of the young
Will encourage the youth to take part in development activities and programmes as preparing them for future leadership roles.
Will seek ways of making the National Youth Service programme more attractive to the youth by improving service conditions.
Will create vocational and skill acquisition centre's for the training of youths who do not have the benefit of formal education. 
Will encourage in more concrete terms, youth who are involved in sports, athletics through the provision of better facilities for training and recreation. In the same vein our national sports team shall receive full government support at all times and youth who excel in this pursuit will receive national recognition.
Will encourage physically disabled youth who show interest in sports by providing specialized equipment and facilities for training.
Will support the building of sports centers in every local government area of the country.
Will lay the foundation for our youth to begin to participate internationally in sports like gymnastics, cycling, fencing swimming etc


AGRICULTURE

give priority to the manufacture of farm equipments as opposed to importing them
provide credit to agriculture
proper programs for irrigation in water scarce regions

ENERGY
provide guidelines for energy conservation and efficiency
set targets for future expansion to meet future needs
continue to explore our energy resources 
explore avenues for the exploration of coal to increase energy supply

HEALTH

Through NAFDAC and other inspectorate and standard organizations, to ensure that drugs manufactured in the country or imported into the country conform with medical specifications and the highest international standard.
To mobilize FEPA and other agencies and nongovernmental Organizations concerned with the environment to fighl pollution and minimize environmental damage to public health. 

FOREIGN POLICY

UPP will promote and expand all bilateral and multilateral agreements which will strengthen Nigerian democracy and support our economic development. 
UPP will strengthen our ties with ECOWAS nations and our leadership position in the West African sub-region and hasten the operation of the treaties for the free movement of goods and persons and for the introduction of a common currency. 
UPP will continue to support MINCOMAR, IJASC and other subregional treaties of understanding to promote trade and development of shipping in the West African sub-region.
UPP believes that Nigeria, as the sixth largest oil producer and a major player in gas production could become a force to lie reckoned with in the world energy sector and that its strength in this regard could be turned to diplomalic advantage. 

HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENT

UPP will simplify the processes for the acquisition of land for building purpose by a massive use ofthe estate system.
UPP will promote research for new building technologies to reduce costs.
UPP will use federal mortgage insurance organizations for re-financing mortgages. 
UPP will encourage employers, local government councils and private entrepreneurs, using the low interest housing fund to create low cost estates for sale to the public. No estates will be put on the market until they have paved roads, light, water and drainage, and are environment friendly. 
UPP will ensure that public conveniences are created in strategic places and that members of the public are not forced to indecency and the discharge of refuse everywhere in the streets.

POLICY ON WOMEN

UPP will promote affirmative action by employers to place women in position of authority.
UPP will use the media and other means of persuasion to promote the education of the girl child on a basis of equality with the boy child; and as we proceed into an era of compulsory education, it will be a breach of the law to withdraw girls from the school system for any reason whatsoever until they attain the age of sixteen years.
UPP will sponsor legislation forbidding marriage before the age of 18 which is the recognized age for adulthood. In addition, a deliberate programme of reorientation would be embarked upon to protect the dignity of the girl child by discouraging harmful customary practices and imposition of marriage partners upon young girls
UPP will support through scholarships and special grants, girls and women who show exceptional skills in their academic pursuits.
UPP will encourage women to seek elective office in local governments, the states and at the federal level.



LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT, job creation

UPP will review all laws dealing with trade disputes and ensure that they conform with democratic practice in other countries.
UPP will ensure that the salaries and other entitlements of workers are paid as and when due.
