questions

should universal basic education be enforced?  education apc
do you think the education sector deserves at least 15% annual budget?
should the government invest in training teachers at all levels of the educational system?
Do you think students should be qualified based on performance rather than certificates?
should a greater portion of expenditure on university education go to science and technology?
is it necessary to allocate more spaces for science and technology related courses in universities?
should the government create more universities of science and technology? 
do you think there should be centers of excellence to cater for special education? #apc education
-----------------------apc---------------------
is it necessary to build more classrooms, halls and libraries at all levels of education?
is there a need to train and re-train teachers at all levels?
should education up to secondary level be made free and compulsory?
should tax-payers money be used to provide free mid-day meals for all public nursery,primary and secondary institutions
------------------ncp--------------------
should the educational budget allocation be more balanced in terms of recurrent and capital expenditure?
should the current educational content be tweaked to engender critical thinking?
should policies be implemented to ensure graduates compete on a global scale?
-------------------------kowa-------------------
should primary/secondary education be free
should bursary be given to students in tertiary institutions
should guidance and counselling services be provided in secondary schools
should existing schools be funded for rehabilitation works
is there a need to construct new schools
should steps be taken to make educational materials more available and affordable
should there be steps put in place to motivate teaching and non-teaching staff
should private institutions be encourage to ensure they meet international standard
----------------dpc----------------------
should more children be encouraged and inspired to study STEM subjects?
should universities be required to be transparent about their selection criteria?
--------------------apda-------------------
should universal basic education be made compulsory?
should students be given bursaries?
do you think there is a need to establish special schools?
do you think it is necessary to provide guidance and counselling in secondary and tertiary instition?
should efforts be put in place to encourage STEM subjects?
is there a need to build more Technical colleges/ colleges of technology?
should funds be devoted to universities and polytechnics for research?
-----------------nnpp-------------------- 